Hi and welcome back.
In this video, just wanted to tell you a little bit
about the concurrent.futures module
and how it can make our threaded code a little bit nicer.
Here we've got some code that creates threads,
starts them,
and then waits for them to finish.
What you can do instead is you can create a bunch of threads
with no target, then give them a target,
start them and join 'em.
And so the reason for that is,
if you were to create a bunch of threads with no target,
then you can choose which thread is going to take
which job afterwards.
And it doesn't really matter which one does,
but essentially you end up sort of a collection of threads
that you can send a task to and get a result back from.
The reason for that and the reason to do that,
and I'm going to just delete that code,
is to just make your code a little bit nicer.
So instead of importing thread from threading,
we're gonna do from_concurrent.futures
import ThreadPoolExecutor.
ThreadPoolExecutor is going to create a pool of threads
that's just a bunch of threads with no target
and it's going to allow us to use that pool to execute jobs
or in this case our functions.
So with ThreadPoolExecutor and max_workers is two as pool,
all we're saying here is create two threads
in this pool of threads, in this collection of threads.
Then we can see pool.submit(complex_calculation),
pool.submit(ask_user).
And that's it.
Our code has been simplified slightly now.
Again, this creates a pool of threads,
a collection of threads and then we can submit a task to it,
and because we've used it with this with statement,
all this does is it waits for the pool to finish.
That essentially means we don't have to call pool.shutdown.
Pool.shutdown will normally wait for these things to finish
and this is again a blocking operation.
But if you the with, you don't have to use pool.shutdown,
so it just makes your code a little bit nicer
using this context manager here.
ThreadPoolExecutor and generally the
concurrent.futures module is very popular
and as you start advancing in your Python journey,
and you for example go to conferences
or you listen to talks on YouTube or things like that,
you'll see the concurrent.futures module
mentioned every now and then.
ThreadPoolExecutor is a pretty popular thing
just to have a bunch of threads waiting
and then you can sort of
ask them to do something and get a result back,
ask them to do something, get a result back,
without having to be always creating new threads.
And so that's why you'd have a thread pool there,
to save yourself from creating new thread all the time.
Okay, that's it for this video.
Just wanted to show you this ThreadPoolExecutor
and I'll see on the next one.